CN final review between submission (#143)
gammapy/gammapy-v1.0-paper: src/ms-review.tex

	}
	{
		Starting from event lists and instrument response functions,
		\gammapy provides functionalities to reduce these data by binning them in energy and sky coordinates.
		Several techniques for background estimation are implemented in the package to handle the residual hadronic background affecting \gammaray instruments.
		After the data are binned, the flux and morphology of one or more \gammaray sources can be estimated
		using Poisson maximum likelihood fitting
		and assuming a variety of spectral, temporal, and spatial models.
		Estimation of flux points, likelihood profiles and light curves is also supported.
	}
	{
		After describing the structure of the package, we show, using publicly-available gamma-ray data,

> 		the capabilities of \gammapy in multiple traditional and novel \gammaray analysis scenarios
> 		such as: spectral and spectro-morphological modelling and estimations of a spectral energy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		the capabilities of \gammapy in multiple traditional and novel \gammaray analysis scenarios,
		such as spectral and spectro-morphological modelling and estimations of a spectral energy
```

%% \gammaray astronomy

> Modern astronomy is defined by the possibility to observe and study astrophysical sources across

Reviewer: I find the "defined by" a bit strong, like there was only one valid definition. Suggestion below:

```suggestion
Modern astronomy offers the possibility to observe and study astrophysical sources across
```

%% Context
%% CN: I think Fermi-LAT data were available from the 2nd year on
%% https://fermi.gsfc.nasa.gov/ssc/data/policy/
While \fermi data and analysis tools have been public from the
beginning, ground-based \gammaray astronomy has been historically conducted
through experiments operated by independent collaborations, each relying
on their own proprietary data and analysis software developed as part of the
instrument. While this model has been so far successful, it does not
permit easy combination of data from several instruments. This lack of
interoperability currently limits the full exploitation of the
available \gammaray data, especially in light of the fact that different instruments often have
complementary sky coverages, and the various detection
techniques have complementary properties in terms of energy range covered,
duty cycle and spatial resolution.

%TODO: better transition into context
% CN: last-minute transition improvement
The Cherenkov Telescope Array Observatory (CTAO) will be the first ground-based
\gammaray instrument to be operated as an open observatory.

> Its high-level data\footnote{The lowest reduction level of data published by CTAO will be reconstructed event lists and corresponding instrument response functions.}

Author: Here I tried to convey why adapting a common data format is beneficial for current intrsuments.
@adonath, @bkhelifi, @registerrier, @AtreyeeS please take a look.

> Its high-level data\footnote{The lowest reduction level of data published by CTAO will be reconstructed event lists and corresponding instrument response functions.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its high-level data\footnote{The lowest reduction level of data published by \cta will be reconstructed event lists and corresponding instrument response functions.}
```

to derive scientific results, such as spectra, sky maps or light curves.
Once the data is reduced to a list of events with reconstructed physical properties of the primary particle,
the information is independent of the data-reduction process, and, eventually, of the detection technique. This implies,
for example, that high-level data from IACTs and WCDs can be represented
with the same data model.
The efforts to create a common format usable by various instruments
converged in the so-called \textit{Data Formats for \gammaray Astronomy}
initiative~\citep{gadf_proc,gadf_universe}, abbreviated to
\texttt{gamma-astro-data-formats} (\gadf). This community-driven intitiative proposes prototypical
specifications to produce files based on the flexible image transport system
(FITS) format~\citep{fits} encapsulating this high-level information. This is
realized by storing a list of \gammaray-like events with their reconstructed and observed
quantities such as energy, incident direction and arrival time and a parametrisation of
the IRFs associated with the event list data. %% where? in the data units of a FITS file.

%% Context: development of open software

> %% CN: I don't see the parallel between gamma-ray astronomy establishing itself and the success of python

Author: This needs to be changed, I think it was the beginning of the very first draft.

We claim that gamma-ray astronomy has established itself and that in parallel python has been adopted as a programming language for scientific analyses. I don't think the two events have any correlation, so I suggest to remove the part about gamma-ray astronomy transitioning from a niche field.

Reviewer: I think the point made is the following: 

Gamma-ray astronomy makes the transition from a closed niche field to a branch of astronomy to an observatory with open data and tools.  In the past ten years Python has established as the language of choice for scientific open software.
So it's a reasonable choice to have the tools for open gamma-ray astronomy  be written in Python. Maybe this could be clarified...

%% \gammapy: concept and goals
%%% Question: starting date? Is is relevant, what is the real start?
The \gammapy project was started following the model of \astropy, with the objective of building a common
software library for \gammaray data analysis \citep{gammapy_2015}. 
The core of the idea is illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:big_picture}. The various \gammaray instruments
can export their data to a common format (\gadf) and then combine and analyse
them using a common software library.
The \gammapy package is an independent community-developed software project.
It has been selected to be the core library for the Science Analysis tools of \cta,
but also involves contributors associated to other instruments.
The \gammapy package is built on the scientific Python ecosystem: it uses \numpy~\citep{numpy} for n-dimensional data
structures, \scipy~\citep{2020SciPy-NMeth} for numerical algorithms, \astropy~\citep{astropy} for
astronomy-specific functionality, \iminuit~\citep{iminuit} for numerical minimisation
and \matplotlib~\citep{matplotlib} for visualization.

> %% CN: what's this??? Out of place here! %%%%

Reviewer 2: This does indeed seem to be hanging. The MAGIC reference is there on line 393 as intended

based on the \gadf DL3 format \citep{HESS_DR1}. This data release served
as a basis for validation of open analysis tools, including \gammapy 
\cite[see e.g.][]{Mohrmann2019}. Two observations of the Crab nebula have been

> %% CN: what about VERITAS and FACT?

Reviewer 2: How about "Two observations of the Crab nebula have been released by the \magic collaboration~\citep{magic_performance}. Using this, combined with data from FACT and VERITAS,  a
 joint analysis across different gamma-ray instruments was first demonstrated in ~\cite{joint_crab}."

> %% CN: what about VERITAS and FACT?

Reviewer: Agreed, this should be added. But I think there is no independent reference, it just got to the joint crab paper again?

> %% CN: what about VERITAS and FACT?

Reviewer: See https://github.com/gammapy/gammapy-v1.0-paper/pull/143/commits/fe91841763b1108284d1e07cea35d02b33e9a976
